today at Minecraft H we have the
pleasure of introducing you to the Ford
Focus 1 litre EcoBoost this car is the
definition of the automotive term
downsizing and what downsizing means it
describes a batch of new cars that have
come onto the market recently which make
do with much smaller engines that are
simply supplemented by either a
turbocharger or supercharger to give the
performance of a much bigger engine but
obviously being a much smaller engine
you get the benefit with the fuel
economy and the lower emission figures
this car is really revolutionary and
it's revolutionary because it takes what
is a small engine this is only a 1 litre
remember literally measured from here to
here and for all you boffins out there
this could actually fit on an a4 sized
that piece of paper it is that small but
it is able to pull what is quite a big
car because Ford add a turbocharger and
this really represents what downsizing
is all about it gives the performance of
a bigger engine say a 1.6 litre but
because it is literally only a 1 litre
you get much better fuel economy and
also the emission figures are reduced to
the extent that this car is actually
exempt from paying any road fund license
this being the smallest engine within
the Ford Focus range starts at price of
just under 16 and a half thousand pounds
here in the UK this model is the
titanium model and is closer to 20,000
pounds so for that you get things like
being the bigger alloy wheels you get
parking sensors on the front and the
back also get privacy glass in the rear
tinted windows to you and me and as
you'll agree the Ford Focus is it's a
big car it seems bigger than the
previous generation but it certainly
doesn't Drive bigger it's a car that
very much drinks around you and it still
has those focused traits of being superb
to drive offers great steering great
gearbox change as well and the and the
engine has to really be tried to be
believe it's superb it's really powerful
for such a small engine and said
essentially this is a car for you
you gistic drivers out there and if you
just just walk round to the back there's
an exit some design features like the
new liked arrangements that would curve
into the rear wing you've got some LED
strip lights here Zen and LEDs and they
just all help to make this a very classy
affair inside Ford have really tried
hard to make this a high-quality affair
and it largely succeeds I mean this is
it's a nice interior it's certainly very
modern and you've got many LCD displays
as one in the center of the dashboard
here which can pedasi actually if we
start the car up there's all just nice
graphics it feels and looks expensive
you've got a Sony CD and system here
it's a da B radio as well which is
digital audio broadcast I think it gives
superior sound quality you get all the
digital radio stations as well
you've got climate control down here
there's lots of different gadgets as
well this car can for example park
itself or can reverse parallel park
itself I should say and the steering
wheel is loaded with buttons and many
different things you can just see that
there lots of different gizmos as well
including Lane and as blind spot
monitors on the wing mirrors there's
also a lane departure warning system so
if you're driving on the motorway and
you slip out of your lane it will
vibrate the steering to let you know
that you've you know you're weaving out
of your lane it's spacious as well and
the great thing with this is that with
the engine the one liter it's
fantastically good to drive it gets a
really nice throaty roar it sounds and
much bigger engine than it actually is
the steering wheel feels fantastic in
your hands
the gear lever works superb Lee and it's
just within a short grasp it's very
spacious as well it feels a much bigger
car inside when compared to the previous
generation and yeah it's it's nicely
different inside as well which in modern
car terms is often there to rare quality
to achieve I hope you found this brief
review useful as always there will be a
more detailed report on our website
on the news section and for all your
carbine needs visit my cottage